Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we will work on the search overlay results for the professor and event post types.
Let me show you what I mean.
So if someone searches for something in our previous lesson, we set up results for general info programs
and campuses.
And now in this lesson, we're going to output results for professors and events.
Let's start with professors.
I don't want to just output simple text like we're doing for these other post types.
For professors.
I want to output a small image or photograph of the professor, and then I want to overlay their name
on top of the image.
Now, we've already done this.
If we close the overlay and go to the programs page and then if I click on to my biology program in
this section, you can see that we've already created that exact styling and that exact feature.
Right.
We have a photo for each professor with their name overlaid.
So I just want to use this HTML and CSA structure in our search overlay for any professor results.
So without further ado, let's make this happen.
The first step is over in our text editor within our JavaScript modules folder.
Let's hop in to Search Jass and then let's scroll down to our method that is named Get Results.
Here it is.
And here we see the heading level to four professors.
Now, in order to save some typing, we can recycle the three lines right above it.
These three lines will help us loop through the results.
So I'm just going to copy this into my clipboard.
And then right below, the professors had line pasted in.
OK, now within our new code, we don't want to look for a submarine named programs.
Instead, we want Prof's.
So let's change this and do the same thing for these two lines as well.
Programs to professors.
All right.
And then on this first line, when we are creating the opening unordered list tag, these success classes
make sense if we want to output a plain text list.
But remember, for professors, I want to output a photograph for each professor.
So let's delete this class of men list and linked list and instead let's give it a class of Professor
Dasht cards.
All right, then.
If we scroll over a little bit to the right, this is the message that will display if there are no
resulting professors.
So let's change this from programs to professors.
And if there are no professors, we don't want to display a link anywhere like we did for programs.
Right.
Because we don't have an all professors page.
So I'm just going to delete this tag entirely.
All right.
Now, next, let's customize this line.
This is the line where we actually spell out the HTML that we want for each result item or for each
professor post.
Now, in this case, I'm going to delete all of this.
I want a clean slate.
So let's just completely hollow out this template, literal right after the back tick.
So right at the beginning of the opening line tag.
And I'm just going to select all the way to the closing line tag and delete.
All right.
So now we've got an empty pair of back ticks.
And in between them, I'm actually going to drop down to a new line so I can stay organized.
All right.
Now, the question becomes, what HTML do I want to output in order to generate this styling in this
structure?
Well, there's no sense in reinventing the wheel.
So why don't we just find this template and then we can literally just copy and paste the HTML that
generates the styling into our JavaScript.
So the page that I'm viewing at the moment is a single dash program.
That's what's allowing me to see this section.
So over in our text editor, let's just jump into a single dash program.
And if we scroll down a bit underneath this first WP query that we see.
Here we see the opening unordered list with a class of professor cards and then most importantly, here
is the list item that's getting generated for each professor.
So this is what has the photo for each professor and the overlay text.
So here's what I'm going to do.
I'm just going to select this entire list item.
So from the opening line to the closing line tablets, copy that into my clipboard and then back in
our search jass file in this space where we just hollowed out the template literal, let's just paste
in our clipboard and now we just need to go through and anywhere we see, we need to get rid of it and
replace it with a JavaScript expression instead.
So, for example, the first bit of we see is right here for the RF value.
So let's delete this entire block that is outputting the permalink and in its place, let's use a JavaScript
expression.
So dollar sign curly brackets and then we can just say Eitam dot permalink.
We can use permalink because remember back in Postman here, I've sent an example request to our custom
API URL and remember that our JSON results will contain a property named Permalink.
All right.
Now back in our code, the next bit of week is on this image line.
So we see that for the source attribute of the image we were using to give us a U.
RL of this featured image at a very specific size and crop.
Now, before we go ahead and delete this block of IP, if we jump over to postmen, it's clear to see
that our Jason does not contain a property with a Eurail that points towards a thumbnail image.
So what we need to do right now is modify our Jason output to include a property we can name it whatever
we want, maybe image, and it should contain a Eurail to a JPEG.
So to do that, back in our text editor in our theme folder, let's look inside our eye and see folder
and jump in to search Rutka P and let's scroll down until we see the if block for the professor post
type.
So if gatepost type equals professor and within this associative array that we are building, let's
just add on a new property.
So maybe at the end of this permalink line we could say Kamma and on the new line we could make up whatever
property name we want.
I'm going to call it image.
And then let's just set it to equal the results of a WordPress function named Get the post thumbnail.
You are now we want to pass this WordPress function.
Two things.
The first is which post you want to get the thumbnail image for.
You can just say zero, which is WordPress code for saying the current post.
And then the second argument is the size that you want to use.
So remember, way back in the course we learned how to create different cropped versions of images.
Maybe one is portrait and another is landscape.
So to refresh our memory of which size we want, if we jump back into our JavaScript, you can see that
we are looking for the size named Professor Landscape.
So back in our search route instead of size, let's say Professor Landscape.
OK, now if I save this and refresh postman perfect.
We've now got a property named Image with an absolute Eurail to a perfectly cropped jpeg.
So now we can go ahead and use this property in our front end JavaScript.
So back in search J.S. Right after the source attribute equals quotes, let's delete this entire block.
And in its place, use a JavaScript expression and let's say Eitam dot image.
OK, and then finally, we want to update the actual name of the professor or the title of the post
that's being output in this span here.
So let's delete this block of PHP and then create an expression and just say item dot title.
OK.
Now, if we save this and make sure that your JavaScript is getting compiled and bundled up, and if
we jump over to the front end and if I search for Bachs a lot, I know that should have a professor
result.
Cool.
There we have it.
And if I try to open that in a new tab, you can see that it successfully takes us to that professor.
Or better yet, if I searched for lorem as in lorem ipsum, that should give us multiple results.
Cool.
This looks pretty nice at this point.
Let's change gears and let's work on outputting results for the event post type.
So back in our JavaScript, let's find the heading level to that reads events.
Here it is.
So right below this, we just want to loop through any resulting posts to avoid a bit of extra typing.
We can recycle these lines up here.
In this case, we actually do not need the bottom line.
We can just grab and copy these two lines.
So let me scroll all the way over to the right to the end of that line.
Go ahead and copy it.
And then back underneath the event's headline, let's paste that in.
Now, events are a little bit different because they don't need an opening unordered list tag.
Now, this is a tiny, random detail that has nothing to do with WordPress or JavaScript in general.
This just has to do with the way that I coded the event styling in the first place.
So to refresh your memory of what we're trying to do here, back on our home page, I want to use this
custom format and styling for the events in our search overlay instead of just plain text like we're
using for general info or programs.
So visually, this is our goal.
So back in our JavaScript, first of all, the sub array that we are looking for within results should
no longer be campuses.
It should be events.
Update this as well.
OK, and now if the array has a length greater than zero, if that's true, we do not need to output
this unordered list tag.
So instead let's just output a completely blank pair of quotes.
But if the array is empty, we still want a bit of text that says nothing matches that search.
So let's just change this to say no events match that search and then we can link them to the all events
page.
So let's change this attribute to B slash events instead of campuses and change this to, say, view
all events.
Cool.
Now, next up, we need to customize this line that generates the HTML for each item.
I just want a clean slate, so I'm just going to completely delete this list item from beginning to
end.
OK, so now we've just got a blank template literal.
And within that I'm going to dropdown just to stay organized.
And now the question is what each HTML do we want to generate?
Well, we don't need to reinvent the wheel.
We can just find the HTML that generates this format and copy and paste it.
So I know that the HTML template to generate an event like this lives within a very specific file within
our theme folder.
Earlier in the course, we created a sub folder named Template Parts, and if we look inside it, we
have a file named Content Dash event and this is the HTML that gives us this formatting so we can literally
just copy all of this, select all copy, and then back in our JavaScript within our blank template,
literal pasted in.
And now we just need to hollow out any of the P and replace it with JavaScript expressions.
Actually, the first thing I'm noticing is that on this opening tag, the ATRA value is just a hash
tag.
So let's get rid of that.
And in its place, create an expression and just say item dot permalink.
OK, the next thing we need to work on is outputting the three letter month abbreviation and the date.
So back in our code, here's a block of speed that is getting the date field and then echoing out the
month.
And then down here we are echoing out the day.
Now, if we look at Postman and if I search for something that should return an event like poetry for
Poetry Day, we clearly do not have properties that will give us the month and day.
So we need to go add those right now.
So back in our code within our I n c folder, let's jump in to.
Search route, and if we scroll down a bit, here's the if block, if the post type is a vent and let's
just add on to this associative array.
So at the end of this permalink line, we can add comma and then dropdown and let's create a property
named month.
For now, we can just set it's equal X as a placeholder and let's also say a day and set that to be
X.
OK, now we just need to actually get the month and day values again.
We do not need to reinvent the wheel and write new code.
We can just go back into our search JavaScript and we've already got the code here that will fetch the
overall event field and then generate the month and the day.
So here's what I'm going to do.
This line of code that says event date equals new instance of date time.
Let me just copy that entire line and then over in our search route file right above this array push
line.
So right underneath this if line, we can just paste in our clipboard.
All right.
So now we've got this variable named Event Date.
And now down here for month and day, we can just look inside of event date instead of these placeholder
X values.
For an example of how to do that.
Back in our JavaScript, you can see that we were echoing the month by just looking inside event date
dash greater than is how you look within an object and p and then we were using the format, method
and capital M is the code for a three letter month abbreviation.
So we can actually just copy and paste this block of code here.
We don't need the echo.
We just want this.
Copy that.
Back in our search route for month, get rid of the placeholder, say this and then for day we can do
the same thing pasted in and the code for day is lowercase d cool.
Now if we save this and refresh postman perfect within our JSON, we now have a month property and a
day property.
So now back in our front end JavaScript, we are free to completely delete all of this PHP here.
So the block begins here and ends here and in its place.
Within this span we just want to output the month.
So JavaScript expression and then Eitam dot month.
Now let's do the same thing for the day.
So the P block begins here and ends here.
Let's open up a JavaScript expression and say item dot day.
All right.
Next up, we see being used to output the permalink.
So let's delete that starts here and ends here.
JavaScript item, dot permalink and then inside the tag we are using to output the title.
So let's delete that chunk of BHP item dot title.
OK, and then finally, we are using to generate a brief description or excerpt right on our homepage.
You can see that if an event has a custom excerpt, we display that.
But if it doesn't have a handcrafted excerpt, then as a fallback we just display in the first twenty
or thirty words of the post.
So back in our code, we can literally just copy and paste this if logic out of this JavaScript template
and into our search route.
Let me show you what I mean.
So let's begin selecting at the start of the IF statement and then the if else combo ends right here.
So let's copy that into our clipboard and then over in our search route file within this array that
we are building after this.
Daylin, let's add a comma and let's create a brand new property.
We could name it whatever we want.
I'm going to call it description and let's set it to equal.
And now this is the part that's a little bit tricky.
I'm not just going to paste in my clipboard here because that could get quite messy.
Instead, let's do this up above this array push line.
Let's create a new variable and name it description and let's set it to equal no.
So now we've got this empty placeholder variable and now right below that, we can paste in our clipboard
and now we can just adapt and clean up this if else statement.
So I don't need all of this extra space.
OK, now we don't actually want to echo anything, instead, we just want to update the value of our
description variable.
So this is the case in this code runs.
Let's get rid of the echo and just say description equals this else.
If this is the case, get rid of the echo, say a description equals this.
Cool.
So now down here within this array that we are building, let's just say this property equals our description
variable.
OK, so if we save that and then refresh postman beautiful, we can see we've got a new property named
description.
So now back in our front end JavaScript code, we can go ahead and delete this entire block that was
surrounding the NFL's logic and in its place, use an expression and say Eitam dot description, OK?
And then finally, let's not forget about the read more link.
So let's get rid of this.
Replace it with a permalink item dot permalink.
Cool.
Now, if we go ahead and save that and then back in the browser, if I search for poetry, as in Poetry
Day, there should be a result.
Yep.
Looks perfect.
Or if I search for science of cats, I know that's another event that I have.
Perfect.
And you can click the link and it takes you to that event and that's going to bring this lesson to a
close.
In our next lesson, we will work on the main reason why we created a custom API.
You are out in the first place.
What I'm referring to is implementing custom search logic so that when you search for biology, it should
pull in any professors that have a relationship to the biology program.
And it should also pull in any campuses or events that are related to biology.
Setting up that logic should be a lot of fun.
So let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.